## creating my own blogging platform - part 1
#### Thu 07/19/18
Today I've started working on creating a new blogging platform for my website.
Previously I had my blog setup with Wordpress, but I found that I wasn't using it much,
and that it provided much more than I needed.

As a minimalist, I like the idea of a barebones style platform that I can create all the features
for. It should be easy to install and mantain, which means using as little packages as possible.
Currently the features that I am aiming for are the following:

* index page for the blog where all the posts are listed in chronological order
* a way for me to easily publish a markdown file
* a serverless backend using the AWS ecosystem
* a commenting system

For this post I will focus on the first item.

Publishing a markdown file has two steps:

* create a new html file from a markdown file
* update contents of blog.html to include a link to the new page.

Both of these are straightfoward. First I need a way convert markdown to html.

    sudo pip install markdown

Perfect!

Then I will need to open the markdown file, read it into a string, pass it into markdown(),
and finally write it into a file. The only information the program will need for me
is the post number, which can come from a command line argument.

After this the script will have to insert a new `<li>` element into blog.html.

    <li><a href="posts/4.html">creating my own blogging plaform</a></li>

This needs two things: the link, and the title of the post.
The link will always be 'posts/(post-number).html', so that's easy. The title can be found by looking
at the first line of the markdown post. Here's the python:

		#!/usr/bin/python3
		from markdown import markdown
		from sys      import argv
		"""
		adds a new <li> element to the <ol> in blog.html
		this always adds it to the end
		"""
		def add_entry_to_list(post_num) :
			post_num = str(post_num)
			md     = open(post_num+'.md')
			header = md.readline()[3:-1] #slice omits the beginning hashes and trailing \n
			md.close()
			html = open('../blog.html')
			lines = html.readlines()
			html.close()
			new_element = ' <li><a href="posts/'+post_num+'.html">'+header+'</a></li>\n'
			for i in range(0,len(lines)) :
				if lines[i] == new_element:
					print('list item already exists')
					return
				if lines[i] == '</ol>\n' :
					lines.insert(i,new_element)
					break
			html = open('../blog.html','wt')
			html.writelines(lines)
			html.close()
			print('new list item created')
			return True
		"""
		reads from the markdown file (post_num).md and writes (post_num).html
		"""
		def add_entry(post_num) :
			try :
				md = open(post_num+'.md')
			except :
				print(post_num+'.md'+' does not exist!')
				return
			html = markdown(md.read())
			md.close()
			post = open(post_num+'.html','wt')
			post.write(html)
			post.close()
			print('post updated')
			add_entry_to_list(post_num)
		if __name__ == '__main__' :
			post_num = argv[1]
			add_entry(post_num)

Next up is styling the plain markdown. I'm all for minimlism, but plain markdown
is a bit bland. Margins and better looking code snippets are a must. To add the style I'll add a `<LINK>` tag
to beginning of the markdown string so that all of the posts can use the same style sheet.

    html = '<LINK REL=StyleSheet HREF="style.css" TYPE="text/css">\n' + html

Padding and a lightgrey background will made it a bit easier on the eyes. For the code snippets I'll
make a thin outline, and give them a lighter background so that it stands out. The header should
be in the center.

		html {
			padding: 25px;
			background: darkgrey;
		}
		body {
			background: lightgrey;
			padding:10px;
			outline: solid darkslateblue 2px;
		}
		h2 {
			margin: auto;
			text-align: center;
		}
		pre {/* wrapper for <code> tag */
			outline: solid black 1px;
			background: whitesmoke;
			padding: 5px;
		}

<button id="before-after"> Before/After </button>
<script>
document.getElementById('before-after').addEventListener('click',function() {
  document.styleSheets[0].disabled = !document.styleSheets[0].disabled;
});
</script>

A great part of markdown is that you can add any html tag whenever you need it. So my blog will
be able to support whatever interactive elements I feel like making. Pretty cool!

    <button id="before-after"> Before/After </button>
    <script>
    document.getElementById('before-after').addEventListener('click',function() {
      document.styleSheets[0].disabled = !document.styleSheets[0].disabled;
    });
    </script>

The style looks okay for now but in the future I would like to experiment with some gradients. Also
syntax highlighting in code snippets would be awesome, but writing the css for that would take
forever, or I would have to use someone elses stylesheets. Gross!
