## Creating My Own Blogging Platform
#### Thu 07/19/18

---

Today I've started working on creating a new blogging platform for my website.
Previously I had my blog setup with Wordpress, but I found that I wasn't using it much,
and that it provided much more than I needed.

As a minimalist, I like the idea of a barebones style platform that I can create all the features
for. It should be easy to install and maintain, which means using as little packages as possible.
Currently the features that I am aiming for are the following:

* index page for the blog where all the posts are listed in reverse chronological order
* a way for me to easily publish a markdown file
* a serverless backend using the AWS ecosystem
* a commenting system

For this post I will focus on the first two items.

Publishing a markdown file has two steps:

* create a new html file from a markdown file
* update contents of blog.html to include a link to the new page.

Both of these are straightforward. First I need a way convert markdown to html.

    sudo pip install markdown

Perfect!

Then I will need to open the markdown file, read it into a string, pass it into markdown(),
and finally write it into a .html file. The only information the program will need for me
is the post number, which can come from a command line argument.

After this the script will have to insert a new table row (`<tr>`) element into `blog.html`

    <tr><td><a href="posts/4.html">creating my own blogging platform - part 1</a></td><td>Thu 07/19/18</td></tr>

This needs three things: the link, the date of the post, and the title.
The link will always be 'posts/(post-number).html', so that's easy. The title can be found by looking
at the first line of the .md file, and the date will be on the second line.

The outputted html needs to include a few more things. First a `<link>` tag so that all the posts
can share the same style sheet:

    html = '<LINK REL=StyleSheet HREF="style.css" TYPE="text/css">\n' + html

And finally a fixed header so that readers can navigate back to the index page. For this I'll create
a partial file and have the script read it and paste it into the output.

#### header.html

		<div class="header">
				<form action="../blog.html">
					<input type="submit" value="blog" />
				</form>
		</div>


#### create_post.py

		#!/usr/bin/python3
		from markdown import markdown
		from sys      import argv

		"""
		adds a new <tr> element to blog.html
		new row will be the first to keep reverse chronoligical order
		"""
		def add_entry_to_list(post_num) :
			post_num = str(post_num)
			md     = open(post_num+'.md')
			header = md.readline()[3:-1] #slice omits the beginning hashes and trailing \n
			date   = md.readline()[5:-1]
			md.close()
			html = open('../blog.html')
			lines = html.readlines()
			html.close()
			new_element = '<tr><td><a href="posts/'+post_num+'.html">'+header+'</a></td><td>'+date+'</td></tr>\n'
			i = len(lines) - 1
			while i > 0 :
				if lines[i].strip() == new_element.strip() :
					print('list item already exists')
					return
				if lines[i].strip() == '<tbody>' :
					lines.insert(i+1,' '*4+new_element) #indent new tag properly and add to file
					print('new list item created')
					html = open('../blog.html','wt')
					html.writelines(lines)
					html.close()
					return
				i -= 1

		"""
		reads from the markdown file (post_num).md and writes (post_num).html
		"""
		def add_entry(post_num) :
			try :
				md = open(post_num+'.md')
			except :
				print(post_num+'.md'+' does not exist!')
				return
			h = open('header.html')
			header = h.read()
			h.close()
			html = markdown(md.read())
			html = '<LINK REL=StyleSheet HREF="style.css" TYPE="text/css">\n' + html
			html = header + html
			md.close()
			post = open(post_num+'.html','wt')
			post.write(html)
			post.close()
			print('post updated')
			add_entry_to_list(post_num)

		if __name__ == '__main__' :
			post_num = argv[1]
			add_entry(post_num)

Next up is adding some CSS.  I'm all for minimalism, but plain markdown is pretty bland.
Padding, a bigger font size, and a light background will made it easier on the eyes.  The post
title should be in the middle and images should be kept from taking the entire page up.

		html {
			padding: 7%;
			background: darkgrey;
		}

		body {
			background: lightgrey;
			padding:10px;
			outline: solid darkslateblue 2px;
		}

		h2 {
			margin: auto;
			text-align: center;
		}

		img {
			display: block;
			width: auto;
			height: auto;
			max-width: 50%;
			margin: 20px auto;
			border-radius:8px;
		}

		p {
			font-size: 18px;
		}

For the code snippets I'll make a thin outline and give them a lighter background so
that it stands out.

		pre {
			outline: solid black 1px;
			background: whitesmoke;
			padding: 5px;
		}

The header should be fixed so users don't need to scroll all the way up to go back. A darker
background will work well.

		.header {
			position:fixed;
			top:0px;
			left:0px;
			width:100%;
			background:#5f5f5f;
			color: #CCC;
			padding: 10px 20px 10px 20px;
			font-size:25px;
		}

Finally the button itself needs colors, and should highlight on mouse over.

		.header form {
			display: inline;
		}
		input {
			background:#5f5f5f;
			color:white;
			border: solid #5f5f5 2px;
			transition-duration: 0.4s;
			border-radius: 4px;
			font-size:20px;
		}

		input:hover {
			background:grey;
			color:white;
			border: solid #5f5f5 2px;
			transition-duration: 0.4s;
			border-radius: 4px;
			font-size:20px;
		}


<button id="before-after"> Before/After </button>
<script>
document.getElementById('before-after').addEventListener('click',function() {
  document.styleSheets[0].disabled = !document.styleSheets[0].disabled;
});
</script>

A great part of markdown is that you can add any html tag whenever you need it. So my blog will
be able to support whatever interactive elements I feel like making. Pretty cool!

    <button id="before-after"> Before/After </button>
    <script>
    document.getElementById('before-after').addEventListener('click',function() {
      document.styleSheets[0].disabled = !document.styleSheets[0].disabled;
    });
    </script>

The style looks okay for now, but I will most likely keep tinkering with it. 
(EDIT: I have indeed tinkered with it a lot since then. <a href="old.html">Here's the result of the above style</a>) 
Syntax highlighting in code snippets would be awesome, but writing the CSS for that would be a lot of tedious work.
The alternative is just using someone else's style sheets, which is something I'm trying to
stay away from.
